>> Woodruff: SCATTERED REPORTS
OF VIOLENCE IN UKRAINE TODAY
UNDERSCORED THE SIMMERING
TENSIONS ROILING THE COUNTRY
WHILE THE INTERNATIONAL WAR OF
WORDS OVER THE CRISIS CONTINUED
TO ESCALATE.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS FRIDAY, ARMED
WITH FACE RECOGNITION, IRIS
SCANNERS, AND A POWERFUL ARRAY
OF COMPUTERS, POLICE ACROSS
THE COUNTRY ARE TAKING A MORE
HIGH-TECH AND POSSIBLY PRIVACY-
ERODING APPROACH TO FIGHTING
CRIME.
THEY'RE MORE LIKELY TO TELL US
THEIR REAL NAMES.
>> Woodruff: THEN, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE THE
WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS...
ARGUABLY THE WORLD'S MOST FAMOUS
PLAY BY LITERATURE'S MOST LAUDED
BARD, AND ONE THEATER COMPANY'S
AMBITIOUS PLAN TO BRING
SHAKESPEARE'S TALE OF A
TORMENTED PRINCE TO EVERY
COUNTRY ON THE GLOBE.
>> WE'LL HAVE TO PUT "HAMLET"
INTO THAT COUNTRY, INTO THE AIR
OF THAT COUNTRY, INTO THE EARS
OF THE PEOPLE OF THAT COUNTRY
AND TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: BOMBS TORE THROUGH
A CAMPAIGN RALLY IN IRAQ TODAY,
KILLING AT LEAST 31 PEOPLE AND
WOUNDING DOZENS MORE.
THE EVENT AT A BAGHDAD STADIUM
WAS INTENDED TO INTRODUCE
CANDIDATES FROM A MILITANT
SHIITE GROUP AHEAD OF NEXT
WEEK'S PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS.
A CAMERA CAPTURED THE EXACT
MOMENT ONE OF THE BOMBS WENT OFF
AT THE COMPLEX.
THERE WAS ALSO INTENSE GUNFIRE
FROM IRAQI SECURITY FORCES AFTER
THE EXPLOSION.
REPORTER JANE ARRAF IS IN
BAGHDAD.
SHE WAS COVERING THE RALLY FOR
THE NEWSHOUR AND SPOKE TO US A
SHORT TIME AGO.
A WARNING-- SOME OF THE IMAGES
SHOWN DURING THIS INTERVIEW MAY
BE DISTURBING.
JANE, WELCOME.
HOW CLOSE WERE YOU, AND TELL US
WHAT HAPPENED.
>> Reporter: WELL, WE WERE AT
A RALLY, QUITE AN IMPORTANT ONE
FOR NEW POLITICAL PARTY, THE
LEAGUE OF THE RIGHTEOUS, AND
IT'S A VERY HARD-LINE
IRANIAN-BACKED PARTY THAT
ACTUALLY HAS A MILITIA ATTACHED.
AS THE MAIN SPEAKERS -- AND
THEY'RE DOING A REENACTMENT OF
THE MARTYRDOM OF HUSSEIN -- AND
THERE'S A HUGE EXPLOSION WHERE
EVERYONE HIT THE GROUND OR
STARTED SCATTERING.
THERE WAS ABSOLUTE PANIC BECAUSE
WHEN CAR BOMBS GO OFF IN
BAGHDAD, SECURITY FORCES
IMMEDIATELY RESPOND BY SHOOTING
RANDOMLY, IN MANY CASES.
AND THERE WAS THE SOUND OF THE
EXPLOSION, A HUGE THUD, GUNFIRE
ALL OVER THE PLACE, AND THEN
THERE WAS ANOTHER CAR BOMB AND A
SUICIDE BOMB.
SO ALTOGETHER, THREE OF THEM.
IT WAS ABSOLUTE PANIC, AS YOU
MIGHT EXPECT, IN BETWEEN THE CAR
BOMBS, EXPLOSIONS, THE SECURITY
FORCES, THE CHAOS.
IT WAS A TRULY TERRIBLE SCENE.
>.>> Woodruff: JANE THERE'S A A
REPORT ABOUT THE VIOLENCE.
WHAT DOES THIS SAY ABOUT THE
SECURITY SITUATION RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK THAT THE UNITED
STATES IS UNDERSTANDABLY
WORRIED.
INTELLIGENCE WAS ONE OF THE BIG
AREAS THAT IRAQ SUFFERED FROM
AFTER THETH OF U.S.
TROOPS.
BUT MORE THAN THAT, WE'VE AT
LEAST GOT NOW, WHAT WE'RE SEEING
IN THE RUNUP TO THE ELECTIONS IS
GROUPS POLARIZED, A LOT OF THEM
WITH THE MILITIA'S ATTACK, MORE
DIVIDED THAN EVER.
THE U.S. IS FOCUSING ON THE
FIGHTING GOING ON THE ANBAR AND
FALLUJAH ONLY 30 MILES FROM THE
CENTER OF BAGHDAD.
THAT MEANS THAT IRAQI GOVERNMENT
AND THEIR AMERICAN ALLIES FEAR
THAT COULD ACTUALLY SPREAD TO
BAGHDAD.
THAT WOULD THREATEN NOT JUST
BAGHDAD, NOT JUST THE IRAQI
GOVERNMENT, BUT A HUGE EMBASSY
AND THOUSANDS OF AMERICAN
CONTRACTORS.
SO THEY ARE UNDERSTANDABLY QUITE
WORRIED ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS IN
ANBAR AND IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY WHERE VIOLENCE SEEMS TO
BE SPREADING.
>> Reporter: JANE, WE ARE SO
GLAD YOU ARE SAFE.
THANK YOU FOR THAT REPORT.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: IN SOUTH SUDAN,
THERE'S WORD THAT GUNMEN FIRED
ON A CONVOY OF UNITED NATIONS
BARGES ON THE NILE RIVER
YESTERDAY.
FOUR PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED,
INCLUDING U.N. PEACEKEEPERS.
THE CONVOY WAS DELIVERING FOOD
AND FUEL TO THE CITY OF MALAKAL
WHEN ATTACKERS OPENED FIRE AND
LAUNCHED ROCKET-PROPELLED
GRENADES.
BOTH THE MILITARY AND REBEL
GROUPS DENIED RESPONSIBILITY.
THE ATTACK CAME DAYS AFTER
HUNDREDS OF CIVILIANS WERE
SLAUGHTERED IN THE CITY OF
BENTIU.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ISSUED A NEW
WARNING TO NORTH KOREA TODAY NOT
TO CARRY OUT A FOURTH NUCLEAR
TEST.
HE SPOKE DURING A VISIT TO SOUTH
KOREA AMID REPORTS OF NEW
ACTIVITY AT THE NORTH'S NUCLEAR
SITE.
E UNITED STATES AND
SOUTH KOREA STAND SHOULDER TO
SHOULDER IN THE FACE OF THE
PROVOCATIONS AND IN OUR REFUSAL
TO ACCEPT A NUCLEAR NORTH KOREA.
THREATS WILL GET NORTH KOREA
NOTHING OTHER THAN GREATER
ISOLN.
>> Woodruff: SOUTH KOREAN
PRESIDENT PARK SAID IF THE NORTH
DOES CARRY OUT ANOTHER TEST,
FURTHER INTERNATIONAL TALKS ON
ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM WOULD BE
POINTLESS.
THE TWO PRESIDENTS ALSO JOINED
IN SILENT PRAYER FOR VICTIMS OF
THE SOUTH KOREAN FERRY DISASTER.
THE NUMBER OF CONFIRMED DEATHS
ROSE TODAY TO 183.
MEANWHILE, THE SOUTH KOREAN
GOVERNMENT ADMITTED SOME OF THE
BODIES WERE MISIDENTIFIED AND
EVEN GIVEN TO THE WRONG
FAMILIES.
AN OFFICIAL TASK FORCE SAID,
FROM NOW ON, IT WILL TRANSFER
REMAINS ONLY AFTER THERE IS A
DNA OR FINGERPRINT MATCH.
THE NUMBER OF SUICIDES IN THE
U.S. MILITARY FELL BY MORE THAN
15% LAST YEAR.
THE FOUR ARMED SERVICES REPORT
THERE WERE 289 SUICIDES AMONG
ACTIVE DUTY TROOPS IN 2013.
THAT'S DOWN FROM THE 343
REPORTED ONE YEAR EARLIER.
THE TOTALS DROPPED IN ALL FOUR
SERVICES, BUT ROSE IN MILITARY
BRANCHES NOT CONSIDERED ACTIVE
DUTY-- THE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
AND RESERVES-- TO 152.
A LAWYER FOR CONGRESSMAN MICHAEL
GRIMM SAID LATE TODAY THE NEW
YORK REPUBLICAN EXPECTS TO  FACE
FEDERAL CRIMINAL CHARGES.
HE'S BEEN UNDER INVESTIGATION IN
A CAMPAIGN FINANCE CASE.
HE MADE HEADLINES IN JANUARY
WHEN HE THREATENED TO THROW A TV
REPORTER OFF A BALCONY AT THE
S.
THE TENSIONS IN UKRAINE AND
DISAPPOINTING EARNINGS WEIGHED
DOWN WALL STREET TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 140 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,361.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN 72
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,075.
AND THE S&P 500 SLID 15 TO
FINISH AT 1,863.
FOR THE WEEK, ALL THREE INDEXES
LOST A FRACTION OF 1%.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
SIMMERING TENSIONS AND SCATTERED
REPORTS OF VIOLENCE IN UKRAINE;
TWO MODERN POPES POISED TO BE
MADE SAINTS;
LOCAL POLICE TURN TO HIGH-TECH
TOOLS TO FIGHT CRIME;
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS;
PLUS, TAKING SHAKESPEARE'S
"HAMLET" TO EVERY COUNTRY ON THE
GLOBE.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO UKRAINE,
RUSSIAN AIRCRAFT ENTERED
YIEWCIALGIAN AIRSPACE ON SEVERAL
OCCASION IN THE LAST 24 HOURS
AND ESCALATING VERBAL ASSAULTS
BETWEEN KIEV AND MOSCOW.
THICK SMOKE MARKED THE DAY'S
MAJOR FLASHPOINT, SLAVIANSK,
WHERE PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS
HOLD SWAY.
A UKRAINIAN MILITARY HELICOPTER
EXPLODED AS IT SAT AT AN
AIRFIELD, HIT BY BULLETS OR
ROCKET FIRE.
LATER, GUNMEN IN SLAVIANSK
SEIZED A BUS CARRYING
INTERNATIONAL MEDIATORS.
THE SEPARATIST LEADER THERE
CLAIMED A SPY FOR THE KIEV
GOVERNMENT WAS ON BOARD.
>> ( translated ): I'VE HEARD
REPORTS THAT THERE WAS SOMEBODY
THERE FROM THE MILITARY
HEADQUARTERS.
IT IS ALREADY DOESN'T LOOK GOOD.
PEOPLE WHO COME HERE AS
OBSERVERS FROM THE EUROPEAN
UNION BRING A REAL SPY WITH
THEM.
IT DOESN'T LOOK GOOD AT ALL.
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF THE POLICY
OF DOUBLE STANDARDS.
>> Woodruff: UKRAINE'S FOREIGN
MINISTRY CONFIRMED IT LOST
CONTACT WITH OBSERVERS FROM THE
ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY AND
COOPERATION IN EUROPE, THE
O.S.C.E.
AT THE SAME TIME, KIEV SAID
GOVERNMENT FORCES WERE BEGINNING
A FULL BLOCKADE OF SLAVIANSK.
A DAY EARLIER, TROOPS KILLED
SEVERAL GUNMEN AT A CHECKPOINT
THERE.
THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY MOVES
PROMPTED A NEW BLAST TODAY FROM
RUSSIA'S FOREIGN MINISTER,
SERGEI LAVROV IN MOSCOW.
>> ( translated ): SOME 160
TANKS AND SOME 250 ARMORED
PERSONNEL CARRIERS AND OTHER
HEAVY MILITARY HARDWARE,
ARE WAGING A WAR WITH THEIR OWN
PEOPLE.
THIS IS A BLOODY CRIME, AND
THOSE WHO PUSHED THE ARMY TO DO
THAT WILL PAY, I AM SURE, AND
WILL FACE JUSTICE.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIAN FORCES WERE
ON THE MOVE, AS WELL, IN
MANEUVERS.
UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS CLAIMED THEY
HAD COME WITHIN 1,100 YARDS OF
THE BORDER.
AND ACTING PRIME MINISTER ARSENY
YATSENYUK SOUNDED AN ALARM.
>> ( translated ): MILITARY
AGGRESSION BY RUSSIA ON
UKRAINE'S TERRITORY WILL LEAD TO
MILITARY CONFLICT IN EUROPE.
THE WORLD HAS NOT YET FORGOTTEN
WORLD WAR II, BUT RUSSIA ALREADY
WANTS TO START WORLD WAR III.
>> Woodruff: LAST NIGHT,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
HAD ACCUSED MOSCOW OF FOMENTING
TROUBLE IN UKRAINE, IN DIRECT
VIOLATION OF LAST WEEK'S
AGREEMENT IN GENEVA.
>> IF RUSSIA CONTINUES IN THIS
DIRECTION, IT WILL NOT JUST BE
GRAVE MISTAKE, IT WILL BE
AN EXPENSIVE MISTAKE
>> Woodruff: BUT RUSSIA'S LAVROV
REJECTED THE CRITICISM TODAY.
HE INSISTED THE SEPARATISTS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE WILL LAY DOWN
THEIR ARMS, UNDER THE GENEVA
ACCORD, ONLY WHEN NATIONALIST
PROTESTERS IN KIEV DISBAND THEIR
CAMPS.
FROM SOUTH KOREA TODAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID AGAIN THE
U.S. AND EUROPEAN NATIONS ARE
READY TO RATCHET UP THE ECONOMIC
PRESSURE ON RUSSIA.
>> WHAT'S ALSO IMPORTANT IS
LAYING THE GROUNDWORK SO THAT,
IF AND WHEN WE SEE EVEN GREATER
ESCALATION, PERHAPS EVEN
MILITARY INCURSION BY RUSSIA
INTO UKRAINE, WE'RE PREPARED FOR
THE SORT OFTO
THAT WOULD HAVE EVEN LARGER
CONSEQUENCES.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS FRESH
EVIDENCE THAT RUSSIA WAS ALREADY
FEELING THE EFFECTS OF THE
INITIAL ROUND OF SANCTIONS.
THE RATINGS AGENCY STANDARD AND
POOR'S DOWNGRADED RUSSIA'S
CREDIT RATING FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN FIVE YEARS TO JUST ONE NOTCH
ABOVE JUNK STATUS.
THE S&P WARNED MORE DOWNGRADES
COULD FOLLOW IF TIGHTER
SANCTIONS WERE IMPOSED AND
CAPITAL FLIGHT FROM THE COUNTRY
WAS NOT STEMMED.
FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT HOW THE
RUSSIAN ECONOMY HAS BEEN
AFFECTED SINCE THE UKRAINE
CRISIS BEGAN, I'M JOINED BY
CLIFF KUPCHAN.
HE'S THE HEAD OF THE EURASIA
GROUP'S RUSSIA AND EURASIA TEAM.
CLIFF KUPCHAN, WELCOME BACK TO
THE "NewsHour".
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE STANDARD &
POOR'S DOWNGRADING OF THE
RUSSIAN CREDIT STATUS.
WHAT DOES THAT REALLY MEAN FOR
RUSSIA?
>> MEANS THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY IS
NOT DOING WELL.
THE REPORT MADE CLEAR CAPITAL
FLIGHT FROM RUSSIA IS IN FULL
STAMPEDE.
THE S&P TOLD US ON AVERAGE FOR
THE PREVIOUS FIVE YEARS,
$51 BILLION A YEAR ROUGHLY HAS
LEFT RUSSIA.
IN THE FIRST QUARTER ALONE OF
2014 BETWEEN $50 BILLION AND
$60 BILLION HAS LEFT.
GROWTH IS ANEMIC.
RUSSIA IS RUNNING DEFICITS.
THEY'RE NOT DOING MUCH TO
IMPROVE THE ECONOMY.
>> Reporter: WHO IS THAT
AFFECTING INSIDE RUSSIA?
SOME OF THE LEADERSHIP?
ORDINARY PEOPLE?
>> RIGHT NOW, I THINK IT'S A
MUDDLING DOWN FOR THE ORDINARY
PERSON.
REAL DISPOSABLE INCOME WHICH
MEASURERS HOW MUCH A PERSON HAS
TO SPEND WAS GROWING
CONSISTENTLY AT HIGH RATES TILL
LAST YEAR WHERE IT WAS AT 1.9%.
SO THE FIRST VICTIM OF ALL OF
THIS IS GOING TO BE THE ORDINARY
RUSSIAN, NOT THE FAT CAT WITH
MONEY ALL OVER THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW, IN FACT,
MINUTES BEFORE WE WENT ON THE
AIR, THE WIRES ARE REPORTING
THAT THE U.S. AND THE E.U. ARE
BOTH SET TO ANNOUNCE NEW
SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA.
ON MONDAY, THE U.S., I'M
READING, SANCTIONS THAT WOULD BE
FOCUSED ON THOSE RESPONSIBLE --
OR ON PUTIN CRONIES AND THE E.U.
FOCUSING ON THOSE "RESPONSIBLE
FOR EASTERN UKRAINE UNREST."
WHAT DOES THAT SAY TO YOU?
>> IT TELLS ME THINGS WILL GET
WORSE FOR MR. PUTIN.
I THINK RIGHT NOW HE IS
OPERATING ON WHAT I'D CALL A
UKRAINE BENDER.
IT'S ALL ABOUT POLITICS.
HE WANTS UKRAINE BACK.
SOONER OR LATER HE'S GOING TO
REALIZE HE MAY HAVE A CHOICE
BETWEEN GETTING UKRAINE AND
HAVING AN ECONOMY BECAUSE THESE
SANCTIONS HURT.
WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO PRACTICE
SANCTIONS ON IRAN.
WE KNOW HOW TO DO THEM.
WE KNOW HOW TO HIT BANKS AND
RE SECTORS AND
PUTIN MAY WELL FIND OUT THE HARD
WAY.
>> Woodruff: BUT ARE THESE
TYPE SANCTIONS WHAT WE JUST
DESCRIBED --
>> NO.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE NOT
SANCTIONS TO HAVE THE IRAN
LEVEL.
>> THOSE ARE NOT OF THE IRAN
THEY ARE AGAINST INDIVIDUALS AND
LEVEL.
INDIVIDUAL COMPANIES, BUT WE'VE
THEY ARE AGAINST INDIVIDUALS AND
LEARNED THAT SANCTIONING A
INDIVIDUAL COMPANIES, BUT WE'VE
BANK -- WE'VE ALREADY SANCTIONED
LEARNED THAT SANCTIONING A
THE 17th LACKEST BANK IN
BANK -- WE'VE ALREADY SANCTIONED
RUSSIA ON MARCH 20.
THE 17th LACKEST BANK IN
THAT SPOOKED THE RUSSIAN
RUSSIA ON MARCH 20.
FINANCIAL SECTION.
THAT SPOOKED THE RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID WE ARE
FINANCIAL SECTION.
PREPARING FOR LEVEL 3 IRAN-LIKE
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID WE ARE
SANCTIONS.
PREPARING FOR LEVEL 3 IRAN-LIKE
SO THIS IS ALL IN THE WORKST
SANCTIONS.
WHAT WE MAY SEE MAY BE THE
SO THIS IS ALL IN THE WORKST
EPITAPH OF THIS GRUESOME EPISODE
WHAT WE MAY SEE MAY BE THE
MAY BE THAT MR. PUTIN CREATED A
EPITAPH OF THIS GRUESOME EPISODE
COSTLY ECONOMIC OVERREACH.
MAY BE THAT MR. PUTIN CREATED A
WE'LL SEE.
COSTLY ECONOMIC OVERREACH.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, HE HAS
WE'LL SEE.
SHOWN NO SIGN OF BACKING DOWN.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR, HE HAS
>> SO FAR HE HAS SHOWN NO SIGN
SHOWN NO SIGN OF BACKING DOWN.
OF BACKING DOWN.
>> SO FAR HE HAS SHOWN NO SIGN
SO FAR, I THINK HE SIMPLY WANTS
OF BACKING DOWN.
UKRAINE BACK.
SO FAR, I THINK HE SIMPLY WANTS
I DON'T THINK HE'S GETTING
UKRAINE BACK.
INFORMED.
I DON'T THINK HE'S GETTING
SOMEBODY'S GOT TO TELL HIM --
INFORMED.
>
SOMEBODY'S GOT TO TELL HIM --
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN
>
YOU DON'T THINK HE'S BEEN
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN
INFORMED?
YOU DON'T THINK HE'S BEEN
>> I DON'T THINK PUTIN'S
INFORMED?
INFORMATION IS ALL THAT GOOD.
>> I DON'T THINK PUTIN'S
I THINK ONE OF THE MANY
INFORMATION IS ALL THAT GOOD.
TRAGEDIES OF THE CRISIS IS HE
I THINK ONE OF THE MANY
SURROUNDS HIMSELF BY HARD-LINER
TRAGEDIES OF THE CRISIS IS HE
KGB GUYS AND THE REALISTS HAVE
SURROUNDS HIMSELF BY HARD-LINER
BEEN ECLIPSED.
KGB GUYS AND THE REALISTS HAVE
I THINK THE FOREIGN FINANCIAL
BEEN ECLIPSED.
MINISTER MAY SAY I WANT UKRAINE,
I THINK THE FOREIGN FINANCIAL
TOO, BUT WE'LL LOSE THE ECONOMY.
MINISTER MAY SAY I WANT UKRAINE,
>> Reporter: YOU DON'T THINK
TOO, BUT WE'LL LOSE THE ECONOMY.
HE'S JUST CHOOSING TO IGNORE IT
>> Reporter: YOU DON'T THINK
OR YOU THINK THE INFORMATION
HE'S JUST CHOOSING TO IGNORE IT
ISN'T GETTING TO HIM?
OR YOU THINK THE INFORMATION
>> LOOK, I DON'T KNOW.
ISN'T GETTING TO HIM?
I'VE MET MR. PUTIN A LOT OF
>> LOOK, I DON'T KNOW.
TIMES.
I'VE MET MR. PUTIN A LOT OF
SHE A VERY EMOTIONAL GUY.
TIMES.
I THINK HE KNOWS WHAT HE WANTS.
SHE A VERY EMOTIONAL GUY.
HE'S EITHER HEARING IT OR NOT
I THINK HE KNOWS WHAT HE WANTS.
HEARING IT IN ONE EAR AND OUT OF
HE'S EITHER HEARING IT OR NOT
THE OTHER OR MAYBE EVERYBODY'S
HEARING IT IN ONE EAR AND OUT OF
TOO SCARED TO GO TO THE
THE OTHER OR MAYBE EVERYBODY'S
GODFATHER AND SAY THIS IS NOT
TOO SCARED TO GO TO THE
SUCH A GOOD IDEA.
GODFATHER AND SAY THIS IS NOT
I DON'T KNOW WHICH WAY BUT
SUCH A GOOD IDEA.
SOONER OR LATER HE'LL GET THE
I DON'T KNOW WHICH WAY BUT
MESSAGE.
SOONER OR LATER HE'LL GET THE
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE THE
MESSAGE.
REPORTS ABOUT RUSSIAN AIRCRAFT
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE THE
OVER UKRAINIAN AIRSPACE IN THE
REPORTS ABOUT RUSSIAN AIRCRAFT
LAST 24 HOURS, RUSSIAN TROOPS
OVER UKRAINIAN AIRSPACE IN THE
CLOSE TO THE BORDER, YOU KNOW,
LAST 24 HOURS, RUSSIAN TROOPS
ARE WE LOOKING AT A SITUATION
CLOSE TO THE BORDER, YOU KNOW,
THAT COULD BECOME A HOT WAR?
ARE WE LOOKING AT A SITUATION
>> THIS IS SCARY STUFF.
THAT COULD BECOME A HOT WAR?
RIGHT NOW, I WOULD BE SURPRISED
>> THIS IS SCARY STUFF.
IF THERE WERE A HOT WAR.
RIGHT NOW, I WOULD BE SURPRISED
MR. PUTIN STILL HAS A HOT CARD
IF THERE WERE A HOT WAR.
WHICH IS INVADE FROM BELOW, TO
MR. PUTIN STILL HAS A HOT CARD
START TO GET ACTIVIST RUSSIANS
WHICH IS INVADE FROM BELOW, TO
IN EASTERN UKRAINE TO TAKE
START TO GET ACTIVIST RUSSIANS
CITIES AND GRAB TERRITORY.
IN EASTERN UKRAINE TO TAKE
THAT WAY HE COULD TAKE UKRAINE
CITIES AND GRAB TERRITORY.
WITHOUT WIELDING ANY TANKS.
THAT WAY HE COULD TAKE UKRAINE
IF THAT DOESN'T WORK, I THINK HE
WITHOUT WIELDING ANY TANKS.
IMMEDIATELY WIELD THE TANKS.
IF THAT DOESN'T WORK, I THINK HE
I'D BE SURPRISED IF WE SAW
IMMEDIATELY WIELD THE TANKS.
ANYTHING THIS WEEKEND OR NEXT AS
I'D BE SURPRISED IF WE SAW
FAR AS INVASION, BUT THIS
ANYTHING THIS WEEKEND OR NEXT AS
PERCEPTION IS A REAL PROBLEM AND
FAR AS INVASION, BUT THIS
HE HAS LIMITED PATIENCE, I'VE
PERCEPTION IS A REAL PROBLEM AND
SEEN IT, AND WE COULD BE IN FOR
HE HAS LIMITED PATIENCE, I'VE
A VERY, VERY ROUGH RIDE HERE.
SEEN IT, AND WE COULD BE IN FOR
>> Woodruff: CLIFF KUPCHAN, WE
A VERY, VERY ROUGH RIDE HERE.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: CLIFF KUPCHAN, WE
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: APPRECIATE IT.
>> GOOD TO SEE YOU.
THANKS.
>> Woodruff: CATHOLICS FROM
AROUND THE WORLD HAVE CONVERGED
ON ROME THIS WEEK TO ATTEND A
CEREMONY UNPRECEDENTED IN THE
MODERN CHURCH.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: CROWDS FLOODED THE
VATICAN TODAY AHEAD OF SUNDAY'S
HISTORIC CANONIZATION OF POPES
JOHN PAUL II AND JOHN XXIII.
MORE THAN A MILLION PEOPLE ARE
EXPECTED TO PACK ST. PETER'S
SQUARE AS TWO OF THE 20TH
CENTURY'S MOST BELOVED PONTIFFS
ARE DECLARED SAINTS.
>> ( translated ): THEY WERE
BOTH GREAT POPES.
THEY CHANGED WHAT WAS THE COURSE
OF THE CHURCH THROUGHOUT
CENTURIES.
SO I THINK THAT THEY WILL DO A
LOT AS SAINTS, TOO.
>> Brown: JOHN PAUL II WILL
ACHIEVE THAT STATUS FASTER THAN
ANYONE IN MODERN TIMES.
THE POLISH CARDINAL WAS ELECTED
POPE IN 1978, AT THE HEIGHT OF
THE COLD WAR, AND STOOD AS A
FIRM OPPONENT TO COMMUNISM.
HE BECAME WILDLY POPULAR, AND
WAS GREETING THE FAITHFUL IN ST.
PETER'S SQUARE IN MAY 1981 WHEN
HE WAS SHOT BY A TURKISH GUNMAN.
HE RECOVERED AND ULTIMATELY
REIGNED FOR 26 YEARS UNTIL HIS
DEATH IN 2005.
SINCE THEN, THOUGH, THERE HAS
BEEN CONTINUING CRITICISM OVER
THE HANDLING OF SEXUAL ABUSE BY
PRIESTS UNDER HIS WATCH.
>> THE SEX ABUSE AFFAIR IS A
DARK PAGE OF HIS PAPACY.
IN MY OPINION, DURING THE LAST
YEAR OF HIS PAPACY, JOHN PAUL II
WASN'T INFORMED ENOUGH ABOUT A
LOT OF DETAILS.
>> Brown: BUT JOHN PAUL'S
SUPPORTERS HAVE DEFENDED HIS
ACTIONS.
>> ( translated ): THE POPE WAS
VERY WORRIED, ACTUALLY.
GIVEN THE PURITY OF HIS THOUGHT,
TO ACCEPT THE REALITY OF THAT,
THE SEX ABUSE BY PRIESTS, IT WAS
INCREDIBLE.
BUT HE ACCEPTED IT.
NATURALLY, HE BEGAN IMMEDIATELY
TO MAKE DECISIONS.
>> Brown: JOHN XXIII, THE SO-
CALLED "GOOD POPE," WAS ELECTED
PONTIFF IN 1958, AND IS BEST
KNOWN FOR  CONVENING THE SECOND
VATICAN COUNCIL.
IT APPROVED A VARIETY OF
REFORMS, INCLUDING CELEBRATIONS
OF MASS IN LANGUAGES OTHER THAN
LATIN.
POPE JOHN XXIII DIED OF STOMACH
CANCER IN 1963.
HE WILL BECOME A SAINT, EVEN
THOUGH THE CHURCH DOCUMENTED
JUST ONE MIRACLE INSTEAD OF THE
CUSTOMARY TWO.
AND JOINING ME NOW-- PATRICIA
McGUIRE, PRESIDENT OF TRINITY
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY.
AND FROM ROME, WHERE HE'S
COVERING THIS EVENT, JOHN ALLEN
IS ASSOCIATE EDITOR FOR THE
"BOSTON GLOBE."
JOHN, WELCOME BACK.
STARTING WITH YOU.
TWO VERY DIFFERENT POPES KNOWN
FOR TWO VERY DIFFERENT THINGS.
CLEARLY, SOME ZIG IN PUTTING
THEM -- SIGNIFICANCE IN PUTTING
THEM TOGETHER IN THIS
CANONIZATION, RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ONE THING YOU DARE NEVER FORGET
ABOUT POPE FRANCIS IS BENEATH
THE LUMMABLE EXTERIOR WHICH IS
REAL IS THE MIND OF AN
EXTRAORDINARILY CRAFTY JESUIT
POLITICIAN.
THIS IS A POPE THAT IS VERY
SENSITIVE TO THE POLITICS HE
DOES AND I THINK HE IS AWARE
THAT, IN THE CATHOLIC STREET,
POPE JOHN XXIII, THE FATHER OF
THE SECOND VATICAN COUNCIL WHICH
LAUNCHED THE CHURCH ON A COURSE
OF REFORM, IS A HERO TO THE
CATHOLIC LEFT, WHEREAS POPE JOHN
PAUL II WHO BATTLED COMMUNISM
AND WHAT HE DESCRIBED AS A
CULTURE OF DEATH BEHIND
LIBERALIZING CURRENTS ON
ABORTION AND OTHER ISSUES, HE IS
A HERO TO THE CATHOLIC RIGHT.
I THINK FRANCIS WORRIED IF
EITHER ONE WERE CANONIZED
INDIVIDUALLY THAT THAT CEREMONY
COULD HAVE COME OFF AS A VICTORY
LAP FOR ONE SIDE OR ANOTHER IN
THE CHURCH'S INTERNAL DEBATES,
WHEREAS BY PUTTING THEM TOGETHER
WHAT HE ACHIEVES IS A KIND OF
CALL TO UNITY, AN INVITATION TO
LEFT AND RIGHT TO GET PAST THEIR
DIFFERENCES AND COME TOGETHER.
>> Brown: PATRICIA McGUIRE,
WHAT IN OUR TIME DOES IT MEAN TO
BE CANONIZED AS A SAINT?
HOW IMPORTANT IS IT TO CATHOLICS
TODAY?
IT'S A GENERAL QUESTION, I
REALIZE, BUT HOW IMPORTANT AND
WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES IT MAKE?
>> I THINK IT'S EXTRAORDINARILY
IMPORTANT.
WE LIVE IN AN AGE WHERE WE
REVERE ICONS.
YOU KNOW, "TIME MAGAZINE" COMES
OUT WITH THE 100 MOST
INFLUENTIAL.
WELL, JOHN XXIII AND JOHN PAUL
II HAVE TO BE THE TWO MOST
INFLUENTIAL CATHOLIC LEADERS
ACROSS THE CENTURY IF NOT MORE.
>> Brown: SAYING THAT, THERE
STILL HAS BEEN SOME QUESTION OR
CONCERN ABOUT THE SPEED WITH
WHICH JOHN PAUL II, EVEN WITHIN
THE CHURCH, RIGHT?
IT'S AN INTERESTING DISCUSSION
THERE.
>> THERTHERE.
SOME SAID  ALREADY SHOWED
CHARACTERISTICS OF SAINTHOOD
DURING HIS LIFE.
THE FACT HE HAD THE CHMA
LEADERSHIP SKILL AND FORTITUDE
TO DO WHAT HE DID WITH REGARD TO
THE LIBERATION OF POLAND IN
EASTERN EUROPE, HE'S A REAL HERO
TO PEOPLE WHO ARE OPPRESSED AND
EVEN PROGRESSIVE CATHOLICS ALSO
LIKE JOHN PAUL II.
THERE MAY BE DISAGREEMENTS ABOUT
SOME CHURCH DOCTRINAL ISSUES,
BUT HE WAS A HERO FOR M&M WOULD
AGREE WITH HIS SAINTHOOD.
>> Brown: JOHN ALLEN, HOW MUCH
HAS THIS CRITICISM ABOUT THE
CHILD ABUSE SCANDALS BEEN A
FACTOR HERE?
>> CLEARLY THE CRITICISM ABOUT
JOHN PAUL II'S RECORD ON THE
CHURCH'S CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE
SCANDALS IS UNDENIABLY PART OF
THE SUBTEXT OF THE EVENT.
THE VATICAN HAS STAGED A SERIES
OF BRIEFINGS WITH SOME OF THE
LUMINAIRES WITH SOME OF THE JOHN
II ERA.
WE HEARD FROM HIS SPOKESPERSON
FROM 22 YEARS, FROM THE CARDINAL
OF CR ACOW POLAND AND THE PAPAL
BIOGRAPHER, ALL OF THEM WERE
ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT THE WAY
JOHN PAUL II DID OR DID NOT
RESPOND TO THE CHILD SEXUAL
ABUSE SCANDAL.
SO I THINK IN TERMS OF THE WAY
THE MEDIA IS COVERING THIS STORY
AND PROBABLY TO SOME EXTENT AT
THE GRASSROOTS, IT'S A PIECE OF
THE PICTURE, BUT, ON THE OTHER
HAND, IT CLEARLY ISN'T DOING
MUCH TO DAMPEN THE ENTHUSIASM OF
THE THRONGS OF PILGRIMS FILLING
ROME EVEN AS WE SPEAK.
ALTHOUGH ESTIMATES VARY, AT
LEAST 1 MILLION, PERHAPS
2 MILLION OR MORE EXPECTED ON
SUNDAY.
I THINK WHAT MOST OF THEM WOULD
SAY IS THAT, WELL, JOHN PAUL MAY
HAVE HAD, THAT ANY PARTICULAR
POPE MAY HAVE MADE MISTAKES IN
JUDGMENT AT THE COURSE OF THEIR
PONTIFICATE.
ATTEND OF THE DAY, THEY DON'T
HARBOR MUCH BOUT JOHN PAUL IS
WORTHY THE HONOR OF BEING
DECLARED A SAINT.
>> Brown: PATRICIA McGUIRE,
I KNOW EVEN WITHIN THE CHURCH
THERE WAS DISCUSSION ABOUT
WHETHER POPES SHOULD BE SAINTED.
THEY'RE ALREADY EXALTED IN SOME
SENSE.
>> THIS IS TRUE.
LOOKS LIKE A LITTLE BIT OF BACK
SCRATCHING, ONE POPE DOING THAT
FOR THE OTHER, BUT, YONDER,
CLARIFYING, HOLDING UP THE
RECORD OF LEADERSHIP OF THESE
TWO INDIVIDUALS, HOLDING OUT THE
IDEA THAT JOHN XXIII, WHAT HE
DID IN JUST FIVE YEARS AS POPE
HAD LIFE CHANGING EFFECTS FOR
MANY CATHOLICS, THE SAME WITH
JOHN PAUL II.
I THINK THERE'S NOTHING WRONG
FOR POPE'S HONORING EACH OTHER
IF FOR THE RIGHT REASONS.
NOT ALL POPES BECOME SAINTS.
SO THE FACT THAT NOT EVERY POPE
IS HONORED BUT ONLY THOSE WHO
HAVE DONE EXTRAORDINARY THINGS
THERE'S A LESSON IN THAT.
>> Brown: HOW ARE WE TO
UNDERSTAND THE MIRACLE QUESTION
IN THIS DAY AND AGE?
HOW MUCH RIGOR GOES INTO THE
EVIDENCE, IN THIS CASE WITH JOHN
XXIII.
ONE MIRACLE AS OPPOSED TO NORMA
TWO.
WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK IN THE MODERN
AGE THERE IS A TENDENCY BOTH TO
TAKE MIRACLES LITERALLY AND TO
SAY THERE MUST BE A LITERAL --
BECAUSE WE'RE A VERY LITERAL
PEOPLE -- AND, ON THE OTHER
HAND, TO SAY, WELL WITH, WE CAN
INTERPRET AND LOOK MORE BROADLY
AT THIS QUESTION.
I THINK THERE IS A DESIRE TO
LOOK MORE BROADLY AT THE MAN'S
ENTIRE BODY OF WORK AND MANY
PEOPLE SAY HE WAS A VERY HOLY
MAN, EVEN DURING HIS LIFE.
HE CREATED MIRACLES.
THAT'S A HEALTHIER MODERN VIEW
THAN TO SAY THERE MUST BE A
CURE.
I THINK THE AGE OF LOOKING FOR
SPECIFIC CURES IS PROBABLY
BEGINNING TO WANE AND THE IDEA
WE SHOULD HOLD UP AS ROLE MODELS
HOLY, EFFECTIVE, GOOD LEADERS,
GOOD PEOPLE WHO TRY TO CHANGE
THE WORLD, THAT REALLY IS WHAT
SAINTHOOD IS ABOUT.
>> Brown: JOHN ALLEN, YOU
STARTED TO TELL US A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN,
BUT HOW DOES IT FEEL, ALREADY?
WHAT'S THE SCENE LIKE?
WHAT ARE YOU EXPECTING THIS
WEEKEND?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU'RE
PICKING UP ANY OF THE BACKGROUND
NOISE, BUT I'M COMING TO YOU
FROM A LOCATION IMMEDIATELY
ADJACENT TO ST. PETER'S SQUARE.
PILGRIMS ARE ALREADY FILLING UP
THE PLACE, SINGING, PLAYING
TAMBOURINES, BANJOS.
IT HAS, HONESTLY, THE FEEL OF
KIND OF A MIX BETWEEN A VERY
SOMBER LITURGY AND A HIGH SCHOOL
PEP RALLY.
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN IS, COME
TOMORROW, SATURDAY, THERE ARE
GOING TO BE 11 CHURCHES AROUND
ROME THAT WILL BE OPEN ALL NIGHT
FOR THE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
PILGRIMS WHO WILL BE HERE WHO
WANT TO SPEND THE NIGHT PRAYING,
PREPARING FOR THE
CANNONNIZATION.
SUNDAY, THE AREA AROUND
ST. PETER'S SQUARE WILL BE
FILLED UP, PACKED TO BURSTING.
OFFICIALS IN ROME HAVE PUT UP 19
JumboTron SCREENS AROUND
TOWN TO ACCOMMODATE THE OVERFLOW
CROWDS.
THE VATICAN SAID THEY ARE
DEPLOYING AN ARMY OF ALMOST
6,000 PRIESTS WHO WILL BE TAKING
BUT THOSE EFFORTS ARE NOT
LIMITED TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY.
LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
ARE ALSO GATHERING AND MINING
UNPRECEDENTED AMOUNTS OF DATA.
PRIVACY ADVOCATES WORRY POLICE
CAN USE THIS INFORMATION TO
TRACK ANYONE AT ANY TIME WITHOUT
A WARRANT.
THE CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING, IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
KQED SAN FRANCISCO, HAS BEEN
LOOKING INTO THESE NEW TOOLS FOR
FIGHTING CRIME.
THE CENTER'S AMANDA PIKE HAS
THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: OFFICER ROB AT
THE CHU LAVISTA POLICE
DEPARTMENT IS TESTING THE
TECHNOLOGY THAT COULD CHANGE HOW
POLICE FIGHT CRIME.
HE'S ON A CALL TO VERIFY THE
IDENTITY OF A WOMAN ARRESTED FOR
THE POSSESSION OF NARCOTICS.
HE DOESN'T NEED TO ASK HER NAME
OR CHECK HER I.D.
HE JUST TAKES HER PICTURE.
HIS TABLET USES FACIAL
RECOGNITION SOFTWARE TO FIND THE
SUSPECT'S MUG SHOT AND CRIMINAL
HISTORY.
>> YOU CAN LIE ABOUT YOUR NAME,
YOUR DATE OF BIRTH, YOUR
ADDRESS, BUT TATTOOS, BIRTH
MARKS, SCARS DON'T LIE.
>> Reporter: POLICE HAVE
ACCESS TO MORE DATA THAN EVER
BEFORE, RAISING QUESTIONS ABOUT
HOW THAT INFORMATION IS USED AND
STORED.
THE TABLET IS PART OF A PILOT
PROGRAM IN SAN DIEGO COUNTY.
>> IT'S BEEN VERY HELPFUL AND
SOME PEOPLE JUST HAVE TO HAVE
THE THREAT OF, OKAY, YOU DON'T
WANT TO TELL US WHO YOU ARE?
WE'LL TAKE A PHOTO AND COMPARE.
THEN WHEN PEOPLE REALIZE THE
TECHNOLOGY WE HAVE, THEY'RE MORE
LIKELY TO TELL US THEIR REAL
NAME.
>> Reporter: MORE AND MORE,
POLICE ARE USING BIOMETRICS,
BIOLOGICAL METRICS FROM FACE
SCANS AND THUMB PRINTS IN
ADDITION TO FINGERPRINTS TO
IDENTIFY SUSPECTS.
FINGERPRINTING HAS BEEN
REVOLUTIONIZED.
NOW PRINTS ARE TAKEN ON A MOBILE
SCANNER AND TRANSMITTED
THOUSANDS OF MILES AWAY TO THIS
HIGHLY SECURE F.B.I. COMPLEX IN
WEST VIRGINIA.
>> THIS IS NEXT GENERATION
IDENTIFICATION.
>> Reporter: THESE SERVERS ARE
THE HEART OF THE F.B.I.'S NEXT
GENERATION IDENTIFICATION
PROGRAM, OR N.G.I.
OFFICIALLY LAUNCHING THIS
SUMMARY, THE BILLION-DOLLAR
PROGRAM THERE ADD NATIONAL SCANS
AND OTHER METRICS TO THE
EXISTING TROVE OF 137 MILLION
FINGERPRINTS.
THESE COMPUTERS ANALYZE EACH
FINGERPRINT AND PHOTO OFFICERS
SEND.
>> COMES TO THESE SERVERS AND
THE SERVICERS DO THE SEARCHES
FOR ALL 137 MILLION AND IF THEY
GET A HIT THEY PICK INFORMATION
OUT TO HAVE THE STORAGE TO SEND
THE CRIMINAL HISTORY BACK TO THE
YEAR YING -- QUERYING OFFICER.
>> Reporter: THIS RUNS UP TO
160,000 SEARCHES A DAY.
>> IT'S BIG.
YOU CAN PICTURE IT BEING A
FOOTBALL FIELD ON TOP OF ANOTHER
FOOTBALL FIELD.
>> Reporter: THE F.B.I. HAS
BEEN COLLECTING FINGERPRINTS
SINCE THE EARLY 1900s.
PRINTS WERE ORIGINALLY CHECKED
BY HAND AND COULD TAKE MONTHS TO
FIND A MATCH.TERS DO THE SAME WK
IN MINUTES.
UNTIL RECENTLY, THE F.B.I. HAD
NO EASY WAY TO SEARCH PALM
PRINTS AND MUG SHOTS TAKEN AT
THE TIME OF ARREST.
THAT FRUSTRATED AGENTS LIKE
JEREMY WILKES, ACTING ASSISTANT
GENERAL ELECTRIC OF CRIMINAL
JUSTICE INFORMATION SERVICES.
>> WE COULD DO VERY LITTLE WITH
THE MUG SHOTS THAT WE HAD.
IF WE WERE COLLECTING PALM
PRINTS, WE COULD DO VERY LITTLE
WITH THOSE.
WE HAD NOTHING THAT REALLY
SEARCHED THOSE.
SO FOR UNSOLVED CRIMES, YOU
WOULD STRUGGLE TO SEARCH THAT.
SO INSERT N.G.I.
>> Reporter: ANY LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER CONNECTED TO
N.G.I. CAN SUBMIT AN IMAGE AND
GET A LIST OF FACES WITH
MATCHING FEATURES.
>> THOSE WOULD BE THE CANDIDATES
THAT WOULD COME BACK.
>> Reporter: THE F.B.I. IS
ADDING IRIS SCANS TO THE
DATABASE BECAUSE EACH PERSON'S
EYE CONTAINS A UNIQUE PATTERN
THAT'S EASY TO CAPTURE.
FOR WILKES, THE REAL POWER IS
SOLVING COLD CASES.
>> I CAN'T WAIT FOR THE SUCCESS
STORIES COME UP.
IT WILL BE WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN
GOLD OF WHY WE DEVELOPED N.G.I.
>> THE BIGGEST CONCERN AND WHAT
PEOPLE NEED TO KNOW ABOUT N.G.I.
IS ANYBODY COULD END UP BEING IN
THAT DATABASE.
>> Reporter: JENNIFER LYNCH IS
A LAWYER WITH THE ELECTRONIC
FRONTIER FOUNDATION WHICH IS
SUING THE F.B.I. TO FIND OUT
EXACTLY WHAT DATA THE AGENCY IS
COLLECTING.
>> THE WAY THAT N.G.I. IS SET
UP, THE F.B.I. SAID, IS THEY'RE
JUST INCLUDING MUG SHOTS.
BUT THAT IS REALLY JUST A POLICY
THAT THE F.B.I. HAS TAKEN.
THERE'S NO LAW THAT SAYS THEY
HAVE TO LIMIT THE INCLUSION OF
IMAGES TO MUG SHOTS.
>> Reporter: THE F.B.I.
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT ITS FACIAL
RECOGNITION SYSTEM SOMETIMES
FLAGS THE WRONG PEOPLE.
15% OF THE TIME, THE SUSPECT
WON'T BE AMONG THE TOP 50 HITS.
>> THOSE PEOPLE WHOSE FACE
IMAGES COME UP SUDDENLY HAVE TO
PROVE THEIR INNOCENCE RATHER
THAN THE GOVERNMENT HAVING TO
PROVE THEIR GUILT, AND THAT'S
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT, AGAIN,
FROM HOW OUR DEMOCRACY HAS BEEN
SET UP.
>> Reporter: PRIVACY ADVOCATES
WORRY A GROWING WEB OF TRAFFIC
MONITORS, LICENSE PLATE READERS
AND NETWORK SECURITY CAMERAS
WILL SOON ALLOW POLICE TO TRACK
OUR EVERY MOVE, ALL WITHOUT A
WARRANT.
THE LEGAL ISSUES OVER HOW THESE
NEW TECHNOLOGIES ARE USED AND
WHO HAS ACCESS TO ALL OF THIS
INFORMATION ARE FAR FROM
SETTLED.
WITH SO MUCH DATA BEING
COLLECTED, THE NEW TOOLS POSE A
CHALLENGE, WHERE TO DRAW THE
LINE BETWEEN SAFER STREETS AND
SPYING.
AT A HIGH-TECH NERVE CENTER IN
LOS ANGELES, POLICE GRAPPLELE
WITH THIS QUESTION EVERY DAY.
>> ABOUT A THOUSAND CAMERAS IN
THE CITY ARE MONITORED HERE
MOSTLY FOR INVESTIGATIVE
PURPOSES.
>> Reporter: CAPTAIN JOHN
ROMERO TRACKS CRIMES IN THE CITY
WITH UP TO THE MINUTE MAPS
REPORTED.
>> A SMALL PICTURE OF BOMB
CALLS, MASKS ARE ROBBERY CALLS,.
>> Reporter: NEW TECHNOLOGIES
ALLOW THE DEPARTMENT TO DO
PREDICTIVE POLICING DETERMINING
WHEN AND WHERE CRIMES ARE MORE
LIKELY TO OCCUR.
AS PART OF A NEW INITIATIVE,
POLICE ALSO MONITOR PRIVATE
CAMERAS NEAR THE HOLLYWOOD SIGN
AND WARN OFF INTERLOPERS THROUGH
A SPEAKER.
>> THEY ARE TRESPASSERS AT THIS
POINT.
>> Reporter: ROMERO BELIEVES
WHILE THE PUBLIC MAY BE UNEASY
ABOUT BEING WATCHED THEY'LL SOON
SEE THE BENEFITS.
>> IN EARLY AMERICA WHEN WE PUT
UP STREETLIGHTS, PEOPLE THOUGHT
THIS WAS THE GOVERNMENT TRYING
TO SPY ON US AT NIGHT.
SO OVER TIME, THINGS SHIFTED
AND, NOW, IF YOU TRIED TO TAKE
DOWN STREETLIGHTS IN LOS ANGELES
OR BOSTON OR ANYWHERE ELSE,
PEOPLE WOULD SAY, IT'S PUBLIC
SAFETY.
YOU'RE HURTING OUR PUBLIC SAFETY
JUST TO SAVE MONEY ON LIGHTING.
I THINK THAT CAMERAS WILL
EVENTUALLY GET THERE WHERE
CAMERAS WILL NOT BE A PROBLEM IN
THE FUTURE.
>> Reporter: BUT NOT EVERYONE
AGREES.
THESE PROTESTERS IN OAKLAND FEAR
THAT POLICE WILL SOON BE ABLE TO
WATCH ANYONE ANYTIME WITH LITTLE
OVERSIGHT.
FOR MONTHS, THEY FOUGHT A PLAN
TO CREATE WHAT THEY CALLED A
CITY-WIDE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM,
AN EXTENSIVE NETWORK OF LIVE
CAMERA AND DATA FEEDS.
IN MARCH, THEY CONVINCED THE
CITY COUNCIL TO SCALE BACK ITS
PLAN.
FOR NOW.
BUT AS POLICE EXPERIMENT WITH
EVER MORE SOPHISTICATED
TECHNOLOGY, THE DEBATE WILL
CONTINUE ON THE BALANCE BETWEEN
SECURITY AND PRIVACY AND WHERE
TO DRAW THAT LINE.
>> Woodruff: THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING PRODUCED
THAT REPORT IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
KQED SAN FRANCISCO.
TOMORROW NIGHT, ON "NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND," WE'LL SHOW YOU THE
RESULTS OF ONE CITY'S SECRET
EXPERIMENT WITH A NEW TECHNOLOGY
CALLED WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE.
AND TO THE ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS
AND BROOKS-- THAT'S SYNDICATED
COLUMNIST MARK SHIELDS AND "NEW
YORK TIMES" COLUMNIST DAVID
BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
SO, LET'S START WITH THE SUPREME
COURT, DAVID.
THIS WEEK UPHOLDING THE RIGHT OF
MICHIGAN CITIZENS TO SAY YOU
CAN'T USE RACE AS A CRITERIA IN
FIGURING OUT AND DECIDING WHAT
STUDENTS ARE ADMITTED TO THE
UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES IN
THAT STATE.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DID YOU MAKE
OF THAT DECISION AND DOES IT
HAVE A LARGER EFFECT ON THE
ACCESS OF MINORITIES TO GETTING
A HIGHER EDUCATION?
>> FIRST, WHAT WAS STRIKING
ABOUT THE DECISION WAS THE
PERSONAL NATURE OF THE FIGHT
BETWEEN JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR AND
THER IT'S ROE v. WADE OR
OTHERS, THEY TRY TO POLARIZE A
SITUATION INTO BLACK AND WHITE.
WHEN DEMOCRATS HAVE MORE
ADVANTAGING AND GET MODERATE
SOLUTIONS.
I'M GLAD THEY DEFERRED TO THE
DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY.
I THINK COLLEGES ARE ALREADY
MOVING AWAY FROM RACE-BASED AND
TOWARD CLASS-BASED SYSTEMS AND
THE SECOND THING THEY'RE DOING
IN PARTICULAR IS RECRUITING
MORE.
YOU CAN RECRUIT.
THERE ARE LOTS OF PLACES IN
AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND LATINO
AREAS, WHERE THERE ARE A LOT OF
SMART KIDS WHO JUST DON'T APPLY.
THEY DON'T KNOW, THEY DON'T KNOW
THE PROCESS, IT DOESN'T OCCUR TO
THEM AND THEY APPLY AT OTHER
SCHOOLS.
SO A SCHOOL LIKE THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN -- I KNOW ALL THE
SCHOOLS I'M AFFILIATED WITH,
MUCH MORE HEAVILY RECRUITED TO
GET THE RIGHT KIND OF DIVERSITY
THROUGH A DIFFERENT MEANS.
SO I THINK IT'S POSSIBLE TO MAKE
IT FOR DIVERSITY WITHOUT SOME
CRUDE FORMULA.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU READ
IT, MARK?
>> I THINK THAT RACE-BASED
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, THE CLOCK
HAS RUN, I THINK IN TERMS OF
POPULAR SUPPORT AND OBVIOUSLY IN
TERMS OF COURT SUPPORT.
I DO BELIEVE THAT THE CENTURY
FUND SCHOLAR WHO ARGUED THEY
OUGHT TO BASE AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
ON CLASS RATHER THAN RACE,
ETHNICITY AND NATIONAL ORIGIN IS
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT AND I THINK
THIS DECISION REALLY RAISES HIS
ARGUMENT WHICH IS IF YOU REALLY
WANT TO -- MAKE THE CASE OF HIS
DAUGHTERS, EDUCATIONALLY
ADVANTAGED AND ECONOMICALLY
ADVANTAGED CERTAINLY WOULD NEVER
NEED RACE AS A CONSIDERATION IN
THEIR ADMISSIONS TO A SCHOOL,
AND THAT THE ECONOMIC
POLARIZATION IN THE COUNTRY, THE
INCREASING GAP BETWEEN THE WELL
OFF AND AS COLLEGES BECOME MORE
EXPENSIVE, I THINK THE URGENCY
OF PROVIDING DIVERSITY
ECONOMICALLY WHICH WILL, OF
COURSE, ALSO INCLUDE BOTH RACIAL
AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY AS WELL
BECAUSE THEY'RE
DISPROPORTIONATELY ADVANTAGED,
BUT TO ME THAT'S THE INITIATIVE
FOR THOSE WHO SEEK A PLURALISTIC
SOCIETY.
>> Woodruff: YOU DON'T THINK
THIS SENDS A DIG NAIL TO
MINORITY KIDS AND PARENTS THAT
IT'S JUST HARDER AND MIGHT AS
WELL NOT EVEN APPLY TO SOME OF
THESE SCHOOLS THAT ARE TOUGHER
TO GET INTO?
>> NO, IT DEPENDS ON THE POSTURE
OF THE SCHOOLS.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE WILL MAKE A
DECISION WHETHER PRINCETON OR
MICHIGAN STATE OR SOUTHWEST
ILLINOIS ON THE BASIS OF WHAT
THE SUPREME COURT SAYS.
IT'S WHETHER THE SCHOOL ITSELF
GOES OUT AND MAKES THE EFFORT.
SO IF THE SCHOOLS ARE HEAVILY
RECRUITING, THEN THAT'S A
POSITIVE THING.
NOW THE DIFFICULTY IS IT'S ONE
THING TO TALK ABOUT PRINCETON
AND STANFORD DOING CLASS SPACE
BECAUSE THEY CAN AFFORD
ANYTHING.
95% OF THE SCHOOLS IN THE
COUNTRY CANNOT AFFORD TO DO
THAT.
SO THE FORMULA IN THE FUTURE IS
HEAVILY RECRUITING IN POORER
AREAS AND MORE INTERNATIONAL
KIDS TO PAY FOR THEM.
THE INTERNATIONAL KIDS PAY FULL.
SO YOU CAN WORK IT OUT BUT IT'S
TOUGHER FOR SCHOOLS WITHOUT
AMAZING RESOURCES.
>> BY A TWO-TO-ONE MARGIN,
VOTERS FAVOR GIVING ADVANTAGE
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR
ECONOMICALLY DEPRIVED.
I MEAN, THE CHILD OF THE SINGLE
MOM WORKING TWO JOBS AND BY A
TWO-TO-ONE MARGIN THEY OPPOSE
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BASED UPON
RACE, ETHNICITY OR NATIONAL
ORIGIN.
SO I THINK, AT SOME POINT,
POPULAR SUPPORT DOES BECOME
CRUCIAL IN THIS ARGUMENT AND I
THINK, TO ME, THAT'S THE CASE TO
BE MADE FOR THOSE WHO FAVOR A
PLURALISTIC AND GIVING
DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN AN
OPPORTUNITY AT HIGHER EDUCATION
IS ECONOMIC-BASED.
>> Woodruff: GUNS.
THE GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA THIS
WEEK SIGNED ONE OF THE MOST
EXPANSIVE GUN RIGHTS LAWS IN THE
COUNTRY.
AMONG OTHER PLACES, YOU CAN NOW
TAKE A GUN IN GEORGIA INTO A
BAR, AIRPORT, CHURCH, A SCHOOL
UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
A CHURCH, IF THE CONGREGATION
ALLOWS IT.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE N.R.A. IS
MEETING, KIND OF CELEBRATING HOW
WELL ITS DONE IN GETTING A LOT
OF GUN RIGHTS LAWS LOOSENED
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
WHAT DOES ALL THIS SAY ABOUT THE
SUCCESS OF THE GUN RIGHTS
ORGANIZATIONS AND, FRANKLY, THE
INABILITY OF THE GUN CONTROL
FOLKS TO WORK THEIR WILL EVEN IN
THE AFTERMATH OF NEWTOWN?
>> ONE OF THE N.R.A. POSITIONS,
THEY WANT A MORE NATIONAL SYSTEM
OF CONCEAL CARRY, WHICH
TOTAL VIOLATION OF ANY
CONSERVATIVE PRINCIPAL OF
FEDERALISM.
IT'S AMAZING.
WHENEVER WE TALK ABOUT
FEDERALISM IN PROCESS, IT'S
OPPORTUNISTIC, NOBODY BELIEVES
THESE THINGS IN PRINCIPLE.
IT'S NOT ONLY THE N.R.A.
THEY HAVE A BASE.
IT'S VERY USEFUL TO HAVE A BASE
OF SUPPORT THAT'S SPREAD
EVERYWHERE AND THAT'S
DISCENTRALLIZED AND PASSIONATE
BECAUSE THEY COME AT POLITICIANS
AT EVERY DISTRICT, AND MY VIEW
IS IF YOU LOOK AT THE POLLING, A
MAJORITY OF AMERICANS SUPPORT
TIGHTER GUN LAWS.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE PASSION,
THE MAJORITY OF PASSIONATE
PEOPLE ON THE N.R.A. SIDE AND
THEN THEY'RE JUST DISPERSED.
A LOT OF PEOPLE MOST PASSIONATE
ABOUT CONTROLLING GUNS ARE IN A
FEW METRO AREAS AND IT'S A HUGE
ADVANTAGE TO BE DISPERSED AROUND
THE COUNTRY WHERE YOU CAN HIT
PRESSURE POINTS.
N.R.A. TAKES FULL ADVANTAGE OF
THAT.
>> THE NEW YORK U.S. TIMES POLL
FAVORS A FEDERAL BACKGROUND
CHECK ON ALL GONERS, 5-12 IN
FAVOR.
GUN OWNERS, 84-14 IN FAVOR,
84-13 BY REPUBLICANS.
IT COMES DOWN TO INTENSITY AND
EXPERIENCE.
COLORADO PASSED, AFTER TWO
THECIAL TRAGEDIES AT AURORA,
CLAIM BINE, THE THEATER AND THE
HIGH SCHOOL, THEY PASSED GUN
BACKGROUND CHECKS AND A LIMIT OF
15 ROUNDS TO A MAGAZINE.
15 ROUNDS TO A MAGAZINE!
THAT'S WHAT PASSED.
THEY HAD TWO DEMOCRATIC SENATORS
INCLUDING A FORMER POLICE CHIEF
RECALL FIRST TIME IN THE HISTORY
OF OFFICE, ANOTHER SENATOR
FACING RECA RESIGNED SO THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY COULD STILL
HOLD POSITION.
SO, I MEAN, THIS SENDS A RIPPLE
EFFECT.
DAVID'S POINT ABOUT INTENSITY IS
THE KEY.
I MEAN, LAST WEEK, WE SAW THE
PIPELINE DECISION.
THERE IS A M A MAJORITY IN FAVOF
BUILDING THE PIPELINE BUT THOSE
OPPOSED DO SO WITH GREATER
INTENSITY AND BIGGER CHECKBOOKS
AND GREATER POLITICAL ACTIVISM
AND URGENCY.
>> N.R.A., USED TO BE THERE
WOULD BE A LOT OF GROUPS THAT
COMPROMISED AND SAY WE'LL ACCEPT
THAT BUT NOT GO THIS FAR.THE N.O
COMPROMISE.
YOU WANT TO TAKE AWAY OUR
BAZOOKAS?
NO WAY.
I'M EXAGGERATE AGO BIT.
THAT MODEL WORKED.
A LOT OF OTHER GROUPS ADOPTED
THAT MODEL, NOT GIVING AN INCH
NO MATTER HOW REASONABLE.
>> Woodruff: FOLLOWING THE
N.R.A.'S SUCCESS.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: I DON'T KNOW MUCH
GUNS MAY OR MAY NOT BE AN ISSUE
BUT THERE WAS A POLE, FOUR
SENATE RACES IN THE SOUTH THAT
SHOWED THE DEMOCRAT WHO WAS
PERCEIVED TO BE IN TROUBLE IN
THESE RACES NOT IN AS BAD E
AS PEOPLE THOUGHT.
DAVID, IS THERE SOMETHING -- IS
THIS A BLIP, I GUESS WITH THE
QUESTION, OR NIGHT DEMOCRATS BE
IN A STRONGER POSITION WHEN IT
COMES TO THESE SENATE RACE THIS
IS NOVEMBER?
>> I THINK TWO THINGS ARE TRUE.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF
REPUBLICANS RECENTLY TELL ME I
WONDER IF WE PEAKED TOO SOON.
THE INTENSITY IN HEALTHCARE
STRONGER A FEW MONTHS AGO, NOW
THERE'S MOVEMENT ON THE
HEALTHCARE LAW, SO MAYBE THAT.
I STILL THINK THE FUNDAMENTAL
STRUCTURE OF THIS MID-TERM
ELECTION IS STILL VERY POSITIVE
TOWARD REPUBLICANS.
AN APPROVAL RATING AND WHEN
PEOPLE FOCUS, I THINK IT WILL BE
A TOUGH YEAR FOR DEMOCRATS.
BUT YOU'VE GOT GOOD CANDIDATES
IN SOME OF THE STATES, GEORGIA
IS ONE OF THEM.
>> Woodruff: AXE ALLY NOT IN
THIS POOL.
>> BUT THERE ARE GOOD DEMOCRAT
CANDIDATES.
BUT I GUESS I WOULD WANT TO SEE
A BUNCH MORE POLLS EVEN THOUGH
IT WAS THE SAINTED "NEW YORK
TIMES" POLL WHICH WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: WHICH I LEFT OUT
(LAUGHTER)
>> JUDY, I DISSENT.
I I THINK IT MAY VERY WELL HAVE
START TO RUN ITS COURSE ON THIS
ARGUMENT ON HEALTHCARE.
I MEAN, YOU CAN'T SAY IT'S A
TOTAL FAILURE.
WE HAVE MILLIONS SIGNING UP IN
THE NUMBERS THEY HAVE.
THE REALITY OF THE PREEXISTING
CONDITIONS AND KIDS STAYING
UNDER AGE 26 AND NO CAPS AND
FAMILIES NOT GOING BANKRUPT
BECAUSE OF ILLNESS, THAT'S
BECOMING A REALITY AND THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE NOTHING.
SO, REALLY, I THINK THE
ARGUMENT, REPAIR, FIX, CORRECT,
RATHER THAN REPEAL, MERELY IS
STARTING TO GET SOME TRACTION.
I'M NOT SAYING IT'S A MAJORITY
POSITION BUT IT'S TAKEN
DEMOCRATS OUT OF A DEFENSIVE
CROUCH, I THINK IN THOSE STATES,
AND I WOULD ADD -- I MEAN, MARK
PRYOR, HIS DAD DAVID WAS A
SUCCESSFUL GOVERNOR,
CONGRESSMAN, SENATOR, HE HIMSELF
HAS RUN SUCCESSFULLY IN A STATE
INCREASINGLY REPUBLICAN.
MARY ANDERS' DAD MAYOR OF
NEW ORLEANS, BROTHER'S MAYOR
NOW.
WON IN TOUGH TIMES.
THERE'S A PRETTY GOOD CANDIDATES
AND I AGREE WITH THE OVERALL
CLIMATE IS STILL
THE REPUBLICANS IN 2014, BUT I
THINK THE DEMOCRATS HAVE KIND OF
GOTTEN THEMSELVES OFF THE
CAMPUS.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE THINGS
YOU'RE HEARING IS THE DEMOCRATS
ARE RUNNING VERY TOUGH ADS
AGAINST THE REPUBLICAN
CHALLENGERS AND IT'S PAYING OFF,
AT LEAST EARLY IN THIS CYCLE.
>> I WOULD PAY PARTICULAR
ATTENTION TO NORTH CAROLINA.
IF YOU WANT TO KNOW WHICH WAY
THE SENATE GOES, NORTH CAROLINA
WOULD BE THE WIN.
>> FOLLOWING, NOTICE THE PATTERN
CREATED BY HARRY REID IN NEVADA
WHERE THEY ADVERTISED IN THE
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY AGAINST THE
LEADING CANDIDATE HOPING TO DRAW
THE EQUIVALENT OF CHRISTINE
O'DONNELL OR TODD AKIN IN
NOVEMBER.
>> Woodruff: WELL, NOTHING BUT
GOOD EXAMPLES SET HERE.
MARK SHIELDS, DAVID BROOKS,
THANK YOU BOTH.
SOME FOUR CENTURIES AFTER THE
DEATH OF WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE,
LONDON'S GLOBE THEATRE IS
LAUNCHING A PLAN TO TAKE THE
PLAYWRIGHT'S TALE OF A TORMENTED
PRINCE AROUND THE WORLD.
JEFF IS BACK WITH MORE ON THAT.
>> "TO BE OR NOT TO BE, THAT IS
THE QUESTION...."
>> Brown: FAMOUS WORDS, FAMOUS
PLAY, THE MOST FAMOUS PLAYWRIGHT
IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE WROTE
"HAMLET" IN THE EARLY 17TH
CENTURY, SHORTLY AFTER HIS
ACTING COMPANY, LORD
CHAMBERLAIN'S MEN, MOVED INTO
THE GLOBE PLAYHOUSE.
IN 1997, A RECONSTRUCTED THEATRE
OPENED ON THE THAMES RIVER AS
SHAKESPEARE'S GLOBE.
NOW, THE AMBITIOUS PLAN IS TO
TAKE "HAMLET" TO EVERY COUNTRY
ON EARTH OVER THE NEXT TWO
YEARS, A PROJECT THAT BEGAN IN
LONDON ON WEDNESDAY,
SHAKESPEARE'S 450TH BIRTHDAY.
I TALKED EARLIER TODAY TO THE
GLOBE'S ARTISTIC DIRECTOR,
DOMINIC DROMGOOLE.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
IN ANNOUNCING THIS, YOU YOURSELF
SAIT IDEA," SO
THE FIRST QUESTION, OF COURSE,
WHY DO IT?
>> WHY NOT?
ALL OF THE BEST IDEAS ARE A
LITTLE BIT MAD.
TWO YEARS AGO, WE DID A VERY,
VERY CRAZY IDEA, A FESTIVAL
WHERE WE INVITED 37 COUNTRIES
FROM ALL ACROSS THE WORLD TO
COME AND DO THE COMPLETE WORKS
OF SHAKESPEARE ALL IN THEIR OWN
LANGUAGES, A SIX-WEEK FESTIVAL.
THAT WAS CRAZY ENOUGH.
BUT WE WANTED TO CAP THAT AND GO
A LITTLE BIT FURTHER AND TO
CELEBRATE SHAKESPEARE, CELEBRATE
THE INTERNATIONAL REACH OF
SHAKESPEARE, BUT ALSO TO CEMENT
OTHER RELATIONSHIPS THAT WE
FORMED WHEN WE DID THAT FESTIVAL
AND SEE IF WE COULD SET A WHOLE
LOT OF NEW RELATIONSHIPS AS
WELL.
AND THEN YOU COME UP WITH THE
IDEA THAT, YOU KNOW, IT'S A BOLD
IDEA, A STUPID IDEA, A HAPPY
IDEA, AND THEY STILL HAVE THEIR
OWN LOGIC, THOSE IDEAS.
>> Reporter: WELL, I THINK
WE'RE USED TO THE IDEA OF
UNIVERSAL THEMES IN SHAKESPEARE,
BUT WHAT SPECIFICALLY IN
"HAMLET" DO YOU THINK SPEAKS TO
EVERYONE?
WHAT DO YOU WANT IT TO SAY ALL
OVER THE WORLD?
>> THE THING ABOUT "HAMLET" IS
IT'S ALWAYS CHALLENGING.
"HAMLET" SAYS THE TIME IS OUT OF
JOINT, AND HE'S A MAN WHO'S GOT
A SENSIBILITY THAT DOESN'T FIT
IN HIS OWN AGE.
HE'S TROUBLED BY THINGS IN AN
AGE THAT DOESN'T PARTICULARLY
UNDERSTAND HIM AND THAT MAKES
SENSITIVE WHERE -- IN ENGLAND AT
THE MOMENT WHERE A LOT OF
PEOPLE, THE YOUNG, THE OLD, FEEL
A SENSE OF DISSATISFACTION, A
SENSE OF DISCONTENT, THEY DON'T
UNDERSTAND THE WORLD AROUND
THEM.
THIS IS TRUE INER
SURE, AND IT'S TRUE IN A LOT OF
DIFFERENT PLACES THAT ARE IN A
VERY DIFFERENT HISTORICAL MOMENT
AND A VERY DIFFERENT POLITICAL
SITUATION.
SO "HAMLET" IS ALWAYS
CHALLENGING, ALWAYS PROVOKING,
IT'S ALWAYS TROUBLING, BUT IT
CAN ALSO INSPIRE, CAN ALSO
CONSOLE.
SO IT'S SORT OF GLORIOUSLY
VARIABLE PLAY THAT IS MANY
DIFFERENT SITUATIONS AND IS
BEAUTIFUL AND GREAT STORY.
>> Brown: THE THEMES MAY BE
UNIVERB THE LANGUAGE
ISN'T, THE SETTING OF THE PLAY
ISN'T, THE POLITICS OF THE
DIFFERENT COUNTRIES ISN'T.
HAVE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT HOW TO
OVERCOME THOSE CHALLENGES?
>> YES, THE CHALLENGES WE FACED
WHEN WE DID THE FESTIVAL A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO.
WE HAD HOT ISSUES TO HANDLE.
WE HAD A LOT OF OBJECTIONS TO US
BRINGING THIS TO DIFFERENT
COUNTRIES.
ONE GROUP OBJECTED TO US
BRINGING ISRAEL, ANOTHER GROUP
OBJECTED TO US BRINGING
PALESTINE AND WE WERE DETERMINED
WE WOULD HAVE BOTH OF THE
COUNTRIES WITHIN OUR FESTIVAL.PN
RATHER THAN EXCLUSION THAT WE'RE
FOLLOWING WITH THIS.
WE DON'T WANT TO SORT OF START
SAYING YOU QUALIFY FOR
SHAKESPEARE YOU QUALIFY FOR
"HAMLET," YOU DON'T, BECAUSE WE
DON'T FEEL WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO
DO THAT.
I THINK EVERY COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD, EVERY GROUP OF PEOPLE IN
THE WORLD HAS AN EQUAL RIGHT TO
"HAMLET" AND I THINK "HAMLET"
CAN BE AN EQUAL BENEFIT FOR ALL
OFM.SO THERE WILL BE CHALLENGEST
WE LIKE CHALLENGES.
YOU CAN'T BE PUT OFF BY THOSE
THINGS.
YOU'VE GOT TO BE INSPIRED BY
THOSE THINGS.
>> Brown: IT MEANS GOING INTO
DIFFERENT PLACES, SYRIA, CENTRAL
AFRICA, MANY OTHERS.
WHAT ABOUT THE PHYSICAL
CHALLENGE OF PERFORMING THIS
SUCH SITUATIONS?
>> WE'RE GOING TO BE VERY
CAREFUL.
WE'RE GOING TO BE SENSIBLE.
WE'RE NOT DOING IT OUT OF A
SPIRIT OF RECKLESSNESS, BUT I
THINK THAT, YOU KNOW, IF WE CAN
GET INTO EVERY PLACE, WHETHER
DEALING WITH N.G.O.s, GOING TO
REFUGEE CAMPS, WHATEVER ITS,WE E
BECAUSE WE WANT TO CELEBRATE THE
ABILITY OF EVERYBODY TO ENJOY
THIS FANTASTIC AND BEAUTIFUL
PLAY.
>> Brown: I UNDERSTAND YOU'RE
GOING TO UKRAINE AT A
PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT MOMENT.
TELL US ABOUT THAT.
>> YES, WE'RE GOING TO BE IN
KIEV IN FOUR OR FIVE WEEKS' TIME
JUST THE NIGHT BEFORE THE
ELECTION.
WE'LL BE PLAYING IN THE THEATER
AND ALSO TRY TO DO A SHORT SHEA
IN MAIDAN SQUARE WHERE A PROTEST
IS GOING ON.
THAT'S WHEN THEATER IS MOST
EXCITING AND BEST WHEN IT CAN
TALK TO PEOPLE IN A VERY CURRENT
AND LIVE POLITICAL MOMENT.
SO IT WILL BE A REAL PRIVILEGE.
>> Brown: SO THIS IS A
TWO-YEAR PROJECT.
YOU'VE GOT THE ACTORS, THE CREW,
THE MONEY TO PULL THIS OFF?
>> WE HAVEN'T REALL REAL -- WE'E
ALREADY STARTED.
WE'VE DONE TWO SHOWS.
WE'VE DONE ONE AT THE "GLOBE"
ITSELF AND WE SAIL TO HOLLAND,
WHICH IS THE FIRST STOP.
WE CAN ALWAYS DO IT NORMALLY.
THERE'S A KICK START CAMPAIGN
WE'RE RUNNING AND EVERYONE WANTS
TO HELP ALONG THE WAY, BUT WE'RE
COMFORTABLE WE'LL BE ABLE TO
MANAGE IT.
>> Brown: DOMINIC DROMGOOLE,
ARTISTIC DIRECTOR OF THE GLOBE
THEATRE IN LONDON.
THANKS SO MUCH AND GOOD LUCK.
>> PLEASURE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE DETAINED A TEAM
OF EUROPEAN MILITARY OBSERVERS,
AS UKRAINE CLAIMED RUSSIA IS
TRYING TO START WORLD WAR III.
AND BOMBS TORE THROUGH A
CAMPAIGN RALLY IN IRAQ, KILLING
AT LEAST 31 PEOPLE AND WOUNDING
DOZENS MORE.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW-- HE'S BEEN CALLED THE
"FATHER OF THE NOVEL," AND ON
MONDAY, NEARLY 400 YEARS AFTER
HIS DEATH, FORENSIC
ANTHROPOLOGISTS WILL USE RADAR
TO HUNT FOR THE REMAINS OF
SPANISH AUTHOR MIGUEL DE
CERVANTES.
READ ABOUT THE MYSTERY
SURROUNDING THE "DON QUIXOTE"
WRITER'S FINAL RESTING PLACE
ON THE "RUNDOWN."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Ifill: WE HAVE A FULL PLATE
TONIGHT WITH DEVELOPMENTS ON THE
FOREIGN POLICY FRONT FROM ASIA
TO THE MIDDLE EAST, WHILE AT
HOME THE SUPREME COURT AND THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT TAKE MATTERS
INTO THEIR OWN HANDS ON
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AND DRUG
SENTENCING.
TONIGHT ON WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND THE NEWS
DOESN'T STOP ON FRIDAYS.
TUNE IN TO THE PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND WITH HARI SREENIVASAN ON
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.